All right.
So let's talk a little bit about the difference and their relationship between exponential functions
and logarithmic functions.
And just to remind you here's an example of an exponential function y equals e to the X remember in
an exponential function the input is the exponent.
OK.
So this is exponential.
And let's also do a logarithmic function so we can just say simply Elen of x.
All right.
So here are used as a base on purpose for the exponential.
Because we're going to use the natural log.
And remember that the base of the natural log is also e.
All right.
So it turns out that these two operations cancel each other out.
So exponential functions and logarithmic functions can so
each other
and you can actually use that to your advantage when you're solving equations involving one of these
two.
So let's throw one example let's say I want to find
the natural log of E to the X gha.
So you might look at this and you might think How do I do this.
I mean we have an X here which makes it seem like we need to put something into it but we really don't.
So let's break this down using our in a monic let's be real.
Right.
So Elby our.
So the logarithm is the natural log.
So just L.N.
our base because it's a natural log.
Remember the base is always the end.
We have our results what we want to get to which is E to the x.
All right.
So in other words we're trying to find an exponent so that when you raise the base e you get as a result
each to the next.
Did you pick it up already.
Did you pick up what's going on here.
We're asking to what xponent should I race to get the results.
E to the x The answer of course is X
doesn't make sense again.
We're saying to what exponents do we need to raise E to get the results of the X.
Well obviously the answer is X because if you raise this base to the X then you're going to have your
result already.
Let me put it to you in other words.
This is like saying the following.
Let's say that playing baseball makes you happy it makes you feel better.
Changes your mood overall.
It's a great activity.
And playing baseball just makes you happy.
So this is pretty much saying if playing baseball makes you happy what do you need to do to be happy.
The answer of course is playing baseball and I know this sounds very redundant like a very obvious thing
but that's exactly what this says.
So let me repeat it once more so that you actually get what's going on.
So if I ask you if playing baseball makes you happy why do you need to do to be happy.
The answer is going to be playing baseball.
Same thing here here.
The problem is asking too what number do need to raise E to get E to the X is just X..
Same thing.
It's very obvious.
And this is an example of how logarithmic functions and exponential functions cancel each other out.
So the answer to this which is an exponents within a logarithm is just x.
So we don't have any more logs or we don't have any more exponentiation.
So this is a cool example again of how when you have exponentiation within logs or vice a versa that
they just go ahead and cancel each other out.
So let's do the opposite example let's say that we want to find E to the L-N of x.
So it's very similar to this one but in an opposite way.
And number one we have exponentiation within a logarithm.
In this case we have a logarithm within exponentiation.
So let's think about what's going on here.
We have as a base and we are racing E to the power of a line of x.
But again think about what's going on.
Remember what LNA X is.
So you're saying lot of X is a logarithm so that when you race e to that power element of X then it
gives you X. But guess what.
We're literally raising e to that power.
Right.
What we're doing here is we're seeing elevate E to the power so that when you elevate e to that power
you get X therefore the result here is also x.
I don't know if this is making sense.
Once you get it you're going to think wow that's really obvious.
Let me break it down for you.
Let's say that see equals.
Ellen IVAX
So what does this mean.
C is equal to the natural log of X.
In other words C is the number to which you need to raise the base to get to X.
So if you raise to this C then you're going to get X..
Well that's exactly what we're doing here.
We're saying to the seat.
So we're raising the to that exponents so that when you race e to that xponent you get X..
This is why again this is X. And again this is not something different.
This is just another way of looking at it going back to her baseball analogy let's assume again that
playing baseball makes you happy.
This is saying if playing baseball makes you happy.
How do you feel when you play baseball.
Well the answer is happy.
You see how this is very similar to that racing to the log of X of base e gives you x because again
you're raising e to whatever number you need to race to get to X..
All right.
So again these two are examples of how exponential functions and logarithmic functions cancel each other
out.
So just to summarize in the first example we have an exponentiation within a logarithm in the second
example we have the opposite.
We have a logarithm within an exponentiation.
In both cases the answer is X.
We're actually going to use this to solve equations.
Let's check out an example.